# virtual-assistant-for-visual-impaired
In this world, certain people are visually impaired and they have been facing numerous complications in their daily life activities due to imperfect vision. However the technologies have grown leaps and bounds, the internet but still the websites are inaccessible by visually impaired persons. Hence this work is aiming for developing a device which will help them as their personal assistant. A speech-based virtual assistant system is presented in this paper for visually impaired people. Main aim of this system is providing voice-over assistant to blind-people for doing tasks such as looking for a thing or object, recognition of person,using the all social feeds and activities juat like other humans, understanding the surroundings and reading, etc. This presented system uses Machine Learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI), Image and Text Recognition for assisting persons who are visually impaired or blind. This concept will be realized by an Android mobile app which includes features like currency recognition, e-book, voice assistant, chat bot and image recognition. This is an effective model for blind individuals for engaging with the world and makes utilize the features of technology. The software reads the contents of websites and then utilizes text to speech and speech to text modules with selenium, it will automate any website. This entire project is dedicated to visually impaired people and is simple and in addition it can make the daily tasks easy for them.
